[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: So without further ado,
let's give loading and
substates another shot.
So, the general idea behind
the loading substate is it is a state
within the router, which is a finite state
machine that doesn't correspond to a URL.
And it will be active as long as
the router is waiting for one of the async
hooks on a given route for
its promise to resolve.
So if you're waiting for
data to come back from an API,
you'll be in the loading substate.
By default,
there really is no visual change to the UI
as a result of returning a promise from
one of these async hooks on route.
You'll just see that you end up
waiting on the previous screen and
it sort of hangs there for a second, and
then you'll end up at the destination.
One reason that this could be desirable to
have this be the default is that if you
have very short waits, you don't wanna
see transitions to a blank screen or you
don't want a flash of some kind if you
only have like 150-millisecond wait.
And so by default it's sort of disabled.
All you have to do to take advantage of
the loading substate is add a template
in the correct folder, depending on
where you're pivoting in your tree,
in your tree of you know routes.
And that loading .HPS will be
rendered in the same outlet that
is basically changing it's content
while you're in this loading situation.
>> Mike North: The error substate works
similarly and you can see here this
dash line I have from the error
substate up to the post route.
I just wanted to illustrate that in both
of these cases, for loading and for error,
the easy way to think about
which loading substate or
which error substate you're going to
need to customize for a given situation.
It completely depends on
what you're pivoting on.
What is the node in this tree of routes
that you're actually pivoting
on to make a given transition?
And so here, because we're pivoting from
post index to post comments index and
the highest common ancestor of those
two states is this post route.
It will be the template for this would be
template/post/error.hbs if
that make sense.
>> Mike North: So remember that these
are part of the route hierarchy.
The significance here is that you can get
specific when loading a particular thing.
If it's make sense to handle
a certain loading events or
a certain error events in a way that is
unique to a particular set of routes.
Remember to mentally or
even on paper draw your route hierarchy
because it is quite easy to get confused
about which loading HPS is gonna be
showing up at a particular time.
And also if you have to kick out
to another substate of some sort,
like if you had custom error page,
intermediate transition to.
You can think of this as being another
option in addition to transition to and
replace with which we already
discussed they're ways
of changing your current state.
Intermediate transition to will take
you to a state but not change the URL.
And so
if you wanted a URL to remain the same but
to go to a specific error page in
a specific case, intermediateTransitionTo,
and then the name of that special error
route would be how to go about doing that.
>> Mike North: So the error substate and
it's worth noting the loading
substate does the same thing.
They will fire an action on
the route that you're pivoting on.
So going back to this example
that we were looking at earlier.
Here, the post route is where you're
gonna see an error action being fired or
a loading action being fired.
>> Mike North: Returning true will cause
the action to bubble up to parent routes.
Eventually, you'll reach application
route and the default behavior
for the error action is to
enter the errors substate.
So basically, you have an opportunity
here to handle things specifically
any given route and then to have sort
of a catch all at a higher level.
And if you breakout your gang
of four design patterns book,
this is commonly known as the chain
of responsibility design pattern.
And the idea is that you have several
different objects that have a chance
to handle a given thing and they can
accept responsibility and deal with it or
they can pass it up the chain.
Or in this case, they could do both.
They could do something and
also pass it up the chain.
>> Mike North: So just to illustrate
how that works, if an error happened
in this case,
if we say our model hook promise rejected,
the error action be called here and
then, it would be called here.
And so
typically in your application route,
you don't wanna have some general
more handling of code of some sort.
If you're instrumenting is a bigger place
to start sending things off to whatever
collector you happen to be using...
But for things like the 404 or a common
thing is if you get a 401 or a 403 and
you need to kick a user out to log in page
because their session may have expired.
That is something you can
handle specifically and
sort of let everything else fall through
to a general or handling code path.
Does everyone get how that works?
>> Speaker 2: Is return true a default?
I missed that.
>> Mike North: So,
you have to explicitly return it true.
If you implement an action,
the default is you're handling it.
Returning true is opting into
allow it to continue bubbling up.
>> Speaker 2: If you don't explicitly
define the action, will it bubble?
>> Mike North: If you don't
define an action, it will bubble.
If you define an action and
return nothing at all, it won't bubble.
If you define an action and return true,
your action will run and it will bubble.
So those are the three things.
Do nothing about it, do something about
it and accept total responsibility for
it, do something and allow other things
up to change to do something as well